# Searchfox Code Understanding Core Logic

## Goal

Searchfox is great.  More can be done using user-driven visualization to aid in
personal understanding and sharing the byproducts of that.

## What's this directory?

This directory houses:
- Dumb searchfox-communication logic.  Simple glue to talk to searchfox.
- Functionality Shims that pretend searchfox exposes something that might be a
  good enhancement for Searchfox to index/pre-compute/etc. but maybe is just
  dumb.
- Code analysis-specific logic.
- No actual UI logic.  That's handled by other directories, see below.

This directory interacts with the following sibling directories:
- graph-ui: An interactive UI widget built on graphviz/viz.js/graph-viz-d3-js
  that provides a means of incrementally growing/refining a graph from the
  underlying (huge) graph that is the codebase and all of its edges and nodes.
- notebook-ui: Eventually, a poor person's mash-up of jupyter/IPython-style
  notebooks and Tiddlywiki.  The idea is that you might create a separate
  notebook for various efforts at understanding Gecko, and this is a somewhat
  decouple higher-level UI that makes it possible to include multiple orthogonal
  graphs, or include log analyses, or crashes, or something.
- ../fancy-ui: This currently glues everything together, probably.

## What's the frontend/backend split?

The backend is all the heavy lifting in terms of processing searchfox data with
all the cpu, network, and I/O use that entails.  In an ideal world, this would
live in a Worker.  Because the current semantic hackjob relies on using the
HTML generated by searchfox and we only have DOM access in the window proper,
the the backend in fact lives in the same page.  But the idea is that the
frontend is decoupled from the backend and to that end even misleadingly uses
a MessageChannel to ensure structured cloning breaks linkages.  The upside is
that in a multi-process browser it might be possible to actually do the heavy
stuff in another process/main-thread from the UI.

## Running / Testing

In the root, run:

```
npm run server
```
